Hello Folks 

###Introduction
This repo includes following files:
ReadMe.md-> global description
run_analysis.R -> the script to transform the data to a tidy data set
CodeBook.md->description of the data format generated by the script analysis.R

### Raw data
The raw data was taken from :
#Data link for download:
#https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

#Data link for description:
#http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

###CodeBook
Refer to CodeBook.md provided in the repo


###Instruction list
The script run_analysis.R is used to get and clean the data.
Must be copied in the folder named "UCI HAR Dataset"
The same folder must be used as working directory to run the script.
The script will load the usefull files in memory, filter and clean the data according to instructions below and write a tidy data file named "dt_Mean.txt" in the working directory.
Here's R code suggested to view the dt_Mean dataframe file:
data <- read.table("dt_Mean.txt", header = TRUE)
View(data)

detailed reformatting operations
#1-Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
We combine the data from files X_train, y_train and subject_train together
We add the names to columns.
For records in X_train the columns names are taken for the file features.txt
Those 3 files are combined by columns

We do same for "test" data

We combine by rows


# 2-Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.

We assumed that mean and standard deviation requires to have mean() or std() at the end of the variable name.
The data frame is filtered using subsetting and regular expression

# 3-Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
This is done by replacing each index in the column activity by the corresponding name taken in activity_label.txt file.

# 4-Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
We found easier and safer to do this operation in step 1 before merging it.
It was done by assigning the names from the file features.txt to the columns of data taken from X_train or X_test.

# 5-From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
First step is to melt the data
Second step is to dcast to group by activity/subject and replace values by mean.
Final step is to record this tidy data in a txt file formatted as data frame with row labels

